# Sentiment Analysis: Trump vs Biden Speech Comparisons  

My study here aims to explore the thematic and rhetorical constructs within political speeches of President Biden and President Trump. It attempts to offer a detailed descriptive insight into speech analysis, as well as the themes and sentiments within their speeches. Main focus of the paper is about an argumentative comparison of the topics and sentiments within their speeches in search of differences or convergences among the two leader’s public addresses.

As a convenience sample, I randomly selected 10 speeches for both of the leaders from their presidential page on White House official website. All of these speeches are relatively long, at least lasting more than two pages per speech to maximize the amount of wording from leaders. In terms of content, both sets of speeches cover topics like economy, security, holiday addresses, foreign policy related matters, public sphere matters and COVID-19. Advantage of covering variety of speeches is again maximizing the amount of potential contexts for different sentiments they convey. For example, a security related speech could communicate fear, anxiety, aggression while a public holiday address could convey hope, happiness and positivity. It is useful to keep the range of speech contexts rich for this purpose. The time frames of both speech sets are relatively close. It covers the last year of Trump administration and the first year of Biden administration. The reason for this selection is that keepign the range of the issues relatively closer and connected to each other shows the leader differences and convergences better. When two leaders can speak about COVID, it creates a fruitful context to compare and contrast their approaches and vocabularies. I collected the speech sets in one document per each president. In the future version of this paper, speeches can be stored as individual documents for per-document statistics as an extension.

The data I use in this project can be found in the .txt documents in this repository. As explained these are speech transcripts collected from the government webpage. Both documents include 10 transcripts for each president. I selected the speeches mostly for their length and they are hand-picked. Additionally, this project can be expanded to include web scraping to acquire the speech transcripts. 


